.TH QSDT 1 "November 2018" "mod_qos utilities 11.59" "qsdt man page"

.SH NAME
qsdt calculates the elapsed time between two related log messages. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
qsdt [\-t <regex>] \-i <regex> \-s <regex> \-e <regex> [\-v] [<path>] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
qsdt is a simple tool to search two different messages in a log file and calculates the elapsed time between these lines. The two log messages need a common identifier such an unique request id (UNIQUE_ID), a thread id, or a transaction code. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-t <regex> 
Defines a pattern (regular expression) matching the log line's timestamp. The pattern must include two sub\-expressions, one matching hours, minutes and seconds the other matching the milliseconds. Default pattern is ([0\-9]{2}:[0\-9]{2}:[0\-9]{2})[.,]([0\-9]{3}) 
.TP
\-i <regex> 
Pattern (regular expression) matching the identifier which the two messages have in common. The sub\-expression defines the part which needs to be extracted from the matching string. 
.TP
\-s <regex> 
Defines the pattern (regular expression or literal string) identifying the first (start) of the two messages. 
.TP
\-e <regex> 
Defines the pattern (regular expression or literal string) identifying the second (end) of the two messages. 
.TP
\-v 
Verbose mode. 
.TP
<path> 
Defines the input file to process. qsdt reads from from standard input if this parameter is omitted. 
.SH EXAMPLE
Sample command line arguments:

  \-i ' ([a\-z0\-9]+) [A\-Z]+ ' \-s 'Received Request' \-e 'Received Response'

 matching those sample log messages:
  2018\-03\-12 16:34:08.653 threadid23 INFO Received Request
  2018\-03\-13 16:35:09.891 threadid23 DEBUG MessageHandler Received Response

.SH SEE ALSO
qsexec(1), qsfilter2(1), qsgeo(1), qsgrep(1), qshead(1), qslog(1), qslogger(1), qspng(1), qsre(1), qsrespeed(1), qsrotate(1), qssign(1), qstail(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Pascal Buchbinder, http://mod-qos.sourceforge.net/
